docs(tutorial): medusajs (#1638)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/install-medusa/index.mdx

---
meta:

>   title: Getting started with MedusaJS - a headless e-commerce platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: Getting started with MedusaJS
```

  description: This page shows you how to to get started with the headless e-commerce platform MedusaJS
content:

>   h1: Getting started with MedusaJS - a headless e-commerce platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: Getting started with MedusaJS
```

>   paragraph: This page shows you how to to get started with the headless e-commerce platform MedusaJS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page shows you how to to get started with the headless e-commerce platform, MedusaJS
```

categories:
  - compute
tags: compute ecommerce shopping onlineshop webshop e-commerce
dates:
  validation: 2023-05-10
  posted: 2023-05-10
---

> This tutorial guides you using MedusaJS, a headless e-commerce platform built on Node.js and React.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows you how to use MedusaJS, a headless e-commerce platform built on Node.js and React.
```

Learn how to install MedusaJS, create a new project, start the development server, and customize your project.
MedusaJS allows you to create scalable and powerful e-commerce solutions that suit your business needs.

The platform is a powerful and adaptable tool that offers a range of customization and extensibility features.
You can customize existing features, add new ones, and integrate with other tools and services to create an e-commerce experience that is customized for your brand and requirements.

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [configured your SSH key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key)
  - You have [created an Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance) that runs Ubuntu 22.04 or later
</Message>

## Installing MedusaJS

> 1. Log into your Instance using SSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Log into your Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/connect-to-instance/) using SSH.
```

2. Update the APT package cache and upgrade the software already installed on your Instance to the latest version available in Ubuntu's repository.
    ```
    apt update && apt upgrade -y
    ```

> 3. Prepare your system by adding the NodeJS and Yarn repositories to your APT package manager

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Prepare your system by adding the NodeJS and Yarn repositories to your APT package manager.
```

    ```
    curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_18.x | sudo -E bash -
    curl -sL https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/pubkey.gpg | gpg --dearmor | sudo tee /usr/share/keyrings/yarnkey.gpg >/dev/null
    echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/yarnkey.gpg] https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/yarn.list
    ```
4. Update the APT cache and install the required packages for Medusa:
    ```
    apt update && apt install yarn nodejs git
    ```

5. Install the Medusa command line interface using the following command:
    ```
    yarn global add @medusajs/medusa-cli
    ```

> 6. Run the following command to create a Medusa App:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Run the following command to create a Medusa app:
```

    ```
    yarn create medusa-app
    ```
7. Specify the directory name for your project. The Medusa application will be installed in this directory. You can go with the default `my-medusa-store` or change it to any name you prefer.
8. Select the Medusa backend starter to use. The Medusa backend is created from a starter template, the default option is `medusa-starter-default`. Pick the default option and press Enter. The `medusa-starter-default` includes the admin plugin, which allows you to access the admin dashboard.
9. Choose the Medusa storefront starter to use. Several starters are proposed. Select the default option `Next.js Starter` and press enter to launch the installation of the required packages. Once the installation is done, the following message displays:
    ```
    Your project is ready 🚀. The available commands are:

      Medusa API
      cd my-medusa-store/backend
      yarn start

      Storefront
      cd my-medusa-store/storefront
      yarn dev
    ```

## Running MedusaJS

> 1. Start the Medusa API by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command to start the Medusa API:
```

    ```
    cd my-medusa-store/backend
    yarn start
    ```
2. Open another terminal window, and launch the Medusa storefront development server:
    ```
    cd my-medusa-store/storefront
    yarn dev
    ```
3. Point your web browser to `http://<your-instance-ip>:8000/`. Your Medusa storefront displays.

## Customizing your project

Inside the project's root directory, specified at the start of the installation process, you find the following directory structure:
```
/my-medusa-store
  /backend // Medusa backend
  /storefront // Medusa storefront starter
```

> You can edit the files to adapt them towards your requirements. Suppose you wish to make changes to the homepage of your MedusaJS application; in that case, you can modify the `my-medusa-store/storefront/src/pages/index.tsx` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can edit the files to adapt them towards your requirements. For instance, ifyou wish to make changes to the homepage of your MedusaJS application, you can modify the `my-medusa-store/storefront/src/pages/index.tsx` file.
```

> This particular file comprises the composands used for rendering your application's homepage. If you want to make changes to the backend of your application, you can edit the files in the `my-medusa-store/backend` towards your specific requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This particular file comprises the components used for rendering your application's homepage. If you want to make changes to the backend of your application, you can edit the files in the `my-medusa-store/backend` towards your specific requirements.
```

> This particular file comprises the composands used for rendering your application's homepage. If you want to make changes to the backend of your application, you can edit the files in the `my-medusa-store/backend` towards your specific requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This particular file comprises the components used for rendering your application's homepage. If you want to make changes to the backend of your application, you can edit the files in the `my-medusa-store/backend` towards your specific requirements.
```

MedusaJS comes with a built-in SQLite database for development and testing purposes, however if you want to deploy your application to production, the use of a PostgreSQL such as a [Managed Database for PostgreSQL](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/quickstart) is highly recommended.

> The tool is designed to be customized tailored to your specific needs and wide section of [Medusa Modules](https://docs.medusajs.com/modules/overview) is available to be integrated in your application. For more information how to configure MedusaJS, refer to the [official Medusa documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/) and the [Medusa development documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/development/overview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool is designed to be customized tailored to your specific needs and a wide section of [Medusa Modules](https://docs.medusajs.com/modules/overview) is available to be integrated in your application. For more information on how to configure MedusaJS, refer to the [official Medusa documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/) and the [Medusa development documentation](https://docs.medusajs.com/development/overview)
```
